Virginie Touchais
Dimitri Belopopsky

# Lab session 1 : Raycasting & Phong illumination


### Edited files:
raytracer/sphere.cpp
    In the intersect function to compute t and N
raytracer/scene.cpp
    In the trace function in the "Phong illumination" part (to compute rendered color with Phong's lighting model)


### Added folders:
results/
    All generated images
results/error-images/
    Images generated with erroneous program
results/images/
    Excpected results generated by our program
raytracer-binary/
    Windows binary



# Lab session 2 : Normal buffer, z-buffer & additional geometry


### Edited files:
raytracer/scene.cpp
    Add of setRendering and getRendering functions
    Modification in the trace function in the "z-buffer" part
    Modification in the trace function in the "normal" part
raytracer/scene.h
    Add of rendering, near and far private attribute
    Add of setRendering, getRendering, computeNearFar,getNear and getFar prototypes
raytracer/raytracer.cpp
    Add of parseRendering function
    Modification in the readScene function to read renderingMode directive and set rendering of the scene
    Modification in the parseObject function to build plane object also
raytracer/raytracer.h
    Add of parseRendering prototype
raytracer/object.h
    Virtual prototype of near and far functions
raytracer/sphere.h
    Prototype of near and far functions
raytracer/sphere.cpp
    implementation of near and far


### Added files:
raytracer/plane.cpp
     /plane.h
    Plane class, which is a subclass of the Object class. Respresents a	plane in the scene.
raytracer/scene-withPlane.yaml
    Scene file containing sphere of scene01 and a plane



# Lab session 3 : Optical laws


### Edited files:
raytracer/scene.cpp
    Add of setRecDepth and getRecDepth functions
    Modification in the trace function to compute reflection
raytracer/scene.h
    Add of RecDepth private attribute
    Add of setRecDepth and getRecDepth prototypes
raytracer/raytracer.cpp
    Add of parseRecDepth function
    Modicfication in the readScene function to read MaxRecursionDepth directive and set recDepth of the scene
raytracer/raytracer.h
    Add of parseRecDepth prototype
raytracer/sphere.cpp
    Modification in the intersect function

### Added files:
raytracer/scene01-reflect-lights-shadows.yaml
raytracer/scene-withPingu.yaml



# Lab session 4 : Anti-aliasing & Extended Camera Model


### Edited files:
raytracer/raytracer.cpp
    Add of parseCamera function
    Modicfication in the readScene function to read Camera's parameters and set the camera of the scene
raytracer/raytracer.h
    Add of parseCamera prototype
raytracer/scene.cpp
    Add of renderEye, renderCam and setCamera functions
    Modification in the render function to use either eye or camera rendering
raytracer/scene.h
    Add of camera private attribute
    Add of withEye and withCam public attribute
    Add of renderEye, renderCam, setCamera, getWidth and getHeight prototypes

### Added files:
raytracer/camera.cpp
    /camera.h
    Camera class, which respresents the camera used to view the scene.
raytracer/scene01-camera-ss-reflect-lights-shadows.yaml
raytracer/scene01-zoom-ss-reflect-lights-shadows.yaml



# Lab session 5 : Texture mapping and alternative illumination models


### Edited files:
raytracer/material.h
    Add of texture
raytracer/object.h
    Virtual prototype of getColor function
    Virtual prototype of mapping function
    Virtual prototype of UVMapping function
raytracer/plane.cpp
         /plane.h
    Add of getColor function
    Add of mapping function
    Add of UVMapping function
raytracer/raytracer.cpp
    Modicfication in the parseMaterial function to read the texture of an object
    Modicfication in the parseObject function to read the rotation value of an object
    Modification in parseMaterial to load images and only load them once (with unordered_map)
raytracer/sphere.cpp
        /sphere.h
    Add of mapping, getColor, UVMapping, getAngle and computeVeVn functions
    Modification of the sphere constructor
    Modification of getColor (compared to simple texture mapping), to allow for bump mapping (NOT WORKING)
raytracer/scene.cpp
         /scene.h
     Change to show bump normal texture when RenderMode is "normals"

### Added files:
raytracer/scene01-texture-coordinate-basic.yaml
raytracer/scene01-texture-coordinate-ss-reflect-lights-shadows-800x800-2x2.yaml
raytracer/scene01-texture-rotated-ss-reflect-lights-shadows-800x800-2x2.yaml
raytracer/scene01-texture-ss-reflect-lights-shadows-800x800-2x2.yaml
raytracer/scene01-bump-mapping.yaml


Raytracer C++ framework for "Introduction to Computer Graphics"
===============================================================

This is a C++ framework for a raytracer. It is created for the Computer
Science course "Introduction to Computer Graphics" taught at the
University of Groningen by Tobias Isenberg.

Author: Maarten Everts

This framework is inspired by and uses code of the raytracer framework of
Bert Freudenberg that can be found at
<http://isgwww.cs.uni-magdeburg.de/graphik/lehre/cg2/projekt/rtprojekt.html>

Description of the included files
---------------------------------

### The raytracer source files:

main.cpp
:	Contains main(), starting point. Responsible for parsing command-line
    arguments.

raytracer.cpp/.h
:	Raytracer class. Responsible for reading the scene description, starting
    the raytracer and writing the result to an image file.

scene.cpp/.h
:	Scene class. Contains code for the actual raytracing.

image.cpp/.h
:	Image class, includes code for reading from and writing to PNG files.

light.cpp/.h
:	Light class and Ray class.

object.cpp/.h
:	Object class. Represents an object in the scene.

sphere.cpp/.h
:	Sphere class, which is a subclass of the Object class. Respresents a
    sphere in the scene.

triple.cpp/.h
:	Triple class. Represents a 3-dimensional vector which is used for colors,
    points,	and vectors. Includes a number of useful functions and operators,
    see the comments in triple.h.

### Supporting source files:

lodepng.cpp/.h
:	Code for reading from and writing to PNG files, used by the Image class.
    LodePNG is created by Lode Vandevenne and can be found at
    <http://members.gamedev.net/lode/projects/LodePNG/>.

yaml/*
:	Code for parsing YAML documents. Created by Jesse Beder, can be obtained
    from <http://code.google.com/p/yaml-cpp/>. See also yaml/license.txt.
